hello there my name is Richard McMunn
from the interview training company past
my interview comm and in this tutorial
I'm gonna teach you how to pass a pilot
interview now it does not matter what
kind of pilot interview you have coming
up the questions and suggested answers
will make a significant difference to
your preparation so please do make sure
you stick around and watch the video
from beginning to end now before I get
into those all-important questions and
answers for your pilot interview a very
warm welcome to this tutorial that's me
there in the center my name is Richard
McMunn and I've been helping people to
pass their interviews for over 20 years
now and always focus on providing you
with high scoring answers that you can't
find anywhere else
now please do make sure you subscribe to
the channel by clicking the red button
below the video and that way you're not
gonna miss out on any of the weekly
tutorials that I'm uploading and I would
also very much appreciate it if you gave
the video a like thank you very much
let's get straight into those pilots
interview questions and answers so
question number one of your pilot
interview tell me about yourself
and why you want to become a pilot with
our airline so these two specific
sections to this question tell us about
yourself and why you've chosen our
airline here we go either highly
organized professional and analytical
person who is the right qualities
attributes and temperament to become a
competent pilot with your airline now I
fully understand and acknowledge that
with the role of a pilot there comes a
huge amount of responsibility and the
experiences I have gained in life so far
coupled with my strong work ethics and
dedication make me the perfect candidate
I believe for this position and I want
to become a pilot with your airline
because having researched your history
and your future plans you are clearly an
airline who has a strong reputation
amongst your passengers and I figured I
would be supported in the role to enable
me to carry out my duties to the highest
standards possible so that's a strong
answer it's full of positive keywords
and phrases and it gets you off on the
right footing during that first pilot
interview question next one tell me
about our airline and what is attracting
you to us specifically so tell me about
our airline and what has attracted you
to us here we go I've chosen your
airline for three
specific reasons now the first reason is
you have a great reputation with your
passengers and travelers which means
providing I carry out my duties as a
pilot to the high standards expected I
will have employment as a pilot with you
for many years to come
secondly your reputation within the
aviation industry is second to none I
carried out quite a lot of extensive
research before applying for this pilot
position both online and offline and the
people I spoke to have nothing but
praise for your commitment to improving
the services you offer and also
supporting your air crew and ground crew
staff alike finally you clearly have
exciting plans for the future of the
airline and I would feel proud to be a
part of that journey and to also help
you achieve your business financial and
environmental objectives that's a quite
a smart answer you've demonstrated
you've done your research in to their
airline and you've got three specific
reasons why you want to join it then
next question as a pilot you need to be
a strong leader what qualities are
needed to become an effective leader so
as a pilot it's okay having the
knowledge the technical technical
know-how to fly the aircraft however you
also need to be a leader so here's my
suggested answer to that question to be
effective as a leader you need to be
calm under pressure make effective
decisions that are based on safe
practices in fact show determination
resilience and accountability and also
be passionate about the work that you do
you also need to act as a positive role
model and be dedicated to your
employer's values and their mission be a
great communicator lead by example and
finally always act with honesty and
integrity at all times it's another
great answer that demonstrates that you
know the qualities and attributes
required to be an effective leader
because you're the person who has to
take responsibility at all times now I'm
going to give you some more pilot
interview questions and answers but if
you'd like to download all twenty the
full set of twenty-one pilot interview
questions and answers click the link
right now that's appeared there in the
top right hand corner of the video it
will take you through to my website here
pass my interview comm where you can
download the full set of 21 pilot
interview questions and high scoring
answers let's move on to the next
now as a pilot why is it important to
have strong communication skills here we
go you need to have strong communication
skills for several reasons but primarily
you need them for safety reasons firstly
whilst communicating with air traffic
control you need to give clear accurate
and concise information and conversely
you also have to listen to and follow
their instructions as and when they
provide them you also have to have
strong communication skills whilst
communicating with other officers who
are part of your crew and also flight
attendant staff once again the strong
communication skills are required due to
safety reasons you also need to have
accurate written communication skills
whilst completing logs as these are all
legal documents that could be used in
the event of an accident or
investigation finally you also need to
have strong calm and reassuring
communication skills whilst
communicating with passengers because
you are often required to give them
updates over the aircraft speaker system
so again it demonstrates that you know
why you have to have the all-important
strong communication skills next
question describe a time when you have
to take a risk
whilst at work now this interview
question is pilot interview question
assesses your level of risk taken now
the important thing to note is that you
are not a risk taker okay you shouldn't
be a risk taker so when you give an
example you have to give a specific one
here describe a time when you have to
take a risk whilst at work we want to
take it away from the Aven in aviation
industry so I'll give an example of here
where I've taken a risk which is outside
of this specific job that you are being
interviewed for and I think that's
important here we go
to be honest I'm not a big risk taker
and I always err on the side of caution
I'm also someone who is much more
comfortable following tried-and-tested
rules and procedures now the biggest
risk I've ever taken was during a
project I was working on for a client in
a previous role the client had requested
that an expensive additional software
resource was to be included within the
project specification I was concerned
because the resource had not been used
before by anyone and therefore there was
no external data available to analyze
how effective it was now from a business
perspective this was high risk
because if the resource failed to
perform to their necessary standards the
clients would not be eligible to pay for
a portion of the project completion fee
now I assess the risk and decided to
proceed based on the fact we could
propose an alternative if the software
resource failed to function as needed
now the end result was the resource was
a great success and the client was very
happy with the end result I guess to
summarize I would never take a risk as a
pilot that IVA
had the potential to put people or the
aircraft in danger or also the potential
to jeopardize the good reputation of
your airline so you'll see there but
I've moved it away from an aviation
situation and I've specified that I'm
not a risk taker and I've reiterated
that at the beginning and at the end and
the reasons why I won't take risks
that's really important now as I say if
you want to download all 21 pilot
interview questions and answers please
do click the link above the video in the
top right hand corner now and you can
have them sent to your inbox literally
within two minutes flat so there they
are on the page all 21 of them now thank
you very much for watching I hope you
found that tutorial useful like I said
please don't forget to subscribe and if
you have any questions or comments
please put them in the comment section
below the video and I will come only
each day and I will answer them thank
you very much for taking the time to
watch this presentation and I wish you
all the best in your pursuit to passing
your pilot interview have a great day